Hi, my name is Sarah and welcome to a day
in the life of a software engineer.
Come on in.
So, I woke up at 5 today.
I already got my workout in, I took care
of my fur kids and gave them a little
love, but I officially can't start my
workday without a cup of coffee.
So, I make a cup of coffee.
A little over a decade.
My usual schedule is 8 to 4 and it's kind
of nice to be able to take a break here
and there to do anything that I need to
around the house or go to a store if I
need to.
So, the tasks that I perform on a daily
basis include updating my code if
somebody requested a change that I make.
Sometimes, I spend a lot of time replying
to emails if that's necessary.
I check in on my interns to see if they
need any help with anything.
My desk setup consists of two external monitors.
One is for code, one is for seeing my
changes, and then my computer for emails
and different terminal things.
I also just have a little fun space where
my birthday cards sit and then a whole
slew of different mice and keyboards.
So, the first thing that I'm going to do
today coding wise is making sure that
what I built works.
This can usually take between 30 minutes
to an hour depending on what I'm working on.
So, right now, my primary languages
include Java and a lot of HTML and CSS,
but I find the most fun in writing
anything based out of JavaScript.
So, like Node .js.
So, I personally use Sublime.
I think it's very low effort and is
really easy to use.
It's really difficult to write code the
first time and it be right.
So, either you're going to find a mistake
or somebody is going to say, Hey, this
isn't really working the way that you
said it would and you're just going to
have to be okay with that.
The first thing I coded today was the
Delete button.
And so, you can see the code here.
And this page is represented on this page
as the UI or the front end.
And you can see that each what I call
card has a Delete button.
And so, now, if you click on Delete,
it'll delete that specific card.
And now, there are no collections.
One of the benefits of working from home
as a software engineer is being able to
cook at home.
It's my form of meditation to kind of
reposition my brain.
I get to think about what I'm going to
work on next.
I get to process maybe a meeting that I
was just in, but cooking is really a way
for me to recenter myself for the day.
I like to spend time on Reddit and I
think a lot of us do when we're on the
computer pretty much all day.
But, I also catch up on YouTube videos or
maybe just talk to my friends on Discord,
maybe plan what I'm going to do for the evening.
But, that usually is about 30 to 45 minutes.
Right after lunch, I get to get into work.
And, since most of my meetings occur in
the morning, I really get a longer time
period in the afternoon to have my next
coding session.
So, I can range between one to two hours
instead of having to kind of take breaks.
I feel the most creative in the afternoon.
I think that's because I've had all of my
coffee and I've had my food or my snacks.
And, I really just am into the meat of
the day.
So, in the afternoons, I have more energy
in my brain to accomplish the tasks that
I set for myself.
I like to keep up with new software and
new frameworks that happen and come up by
actually looking through job openings.
And, if there is a new framework that's
really important, a lot of companies will
post that in their job description or a requirement.
So, I'll kind of go through what jobs are
available and see what companies are
using most of.
And, sometimes, I even learn about new
frameworks that way.
Another great thing about working from
home is being able to leave if I have to.
And, I'm feeling something really spicy tonight.
So, there is a store that I'm going to go
to and do a little grocery shopping.
In order to become a better software
engineer, I would recommend maybe going
to a class website like Udemy or a coding bootcamp.
Or, even just kind of thinking about a
project that you like to build and
starting it from scratch.
Gaining experience by doing is the best
way to keep yourself up to date and
become a better software engineer.
I got into my profession kind of by accident.
I knew that I wanted to write.
So, I actually started off as a
journalism major.
But, I wanted to kind of work with my
creative side.
So, I decided to write code, which I am
writing, but I'm also using my creative side.
So, I went from being a journalism major
to a software engineer.
My goals for my future are to kind of
transition into more of a management role.
So, I enrolled myself into a project
management course.
What's nice about being in this field is
that continued education is very
important to a lot of people.
So, you get time to be able to do that.
I usually wrap up my day by going through
my emails and making sure that I didn't
miss anything that I was supposed to get
to by today.
I check my work schedule for tomorrow to
see if there are any meetings.
Last thing I like to do at the end of the
day, or I have to do at the end of the
day, is log my time.
So, I worked on the front end for about
four hours today, and I worked on other
things for about another four hours.
So, that's eight hours.
And, I try to end my day around four so
that I have enough time at the end of the
day to kind of wind down from it.
Software engineering can be pretty
stressful, so the best way for me to wind
down from a stressful workday is to play
video games.
It's just a really easy and relaxing game
to wind down my day.
I think coding asks a lot from you, and
it takes a lot of energy to do it, so I
would recommend just being okay with a
high -stress, high -energy environment.
And, make sure to speak your mind and
just be yourself, and it's going to be okay.